(upbeat music)
- Steady-state cardiovascular
exercise is not part
of the X3 program, and get a
lot of questions about that,
because cardio has been,
the go to type thing
for weight loss for a long
time and we're gonna explain
why that's not true and
it's terrible advice
and also those better ways
to get cardiovascular health,
meaning the health of
your heart and your lungs.
Now, I am gonna also say
that if you wanna be a
great distance runner,
you have to distance run,
because the body's gonna adapt
to the environment that you put it in.
So you put it in an environment
that has extremely heavy loading,
even heavier with variable
resistance and weight training,
it's gonna adapt to that
and you can get bigger and stronger.
If you put the body in an environment
where it has to go long distances,
it's going to make changes,
based on optimizing you
for going long distances.
And let me explain,
why that's not necessarily
a good or bad thing.
It's just a thing.
And that's what the body does.
So, you got to think about
what the central nervous
system is gonna do,
when you're trying to show the body
that you wanna go long
distances, you know,
with a limited amount of fuel,
'cause you're trying to
lose body fat, right?
So what happens, is the body
sees an energy expenditure,
and a fuel availability that
don't necessarily match.
So, let's say you run 10
miles and you're running
for an extended period
of time, the body says,
okay, we want to shrink
the engine, of the body
because then we'll burn less fuel
as we go that same distance.
So you lose muscle when you do cardio,
and cortisol, attenuates this.
So cortisol goes up, when
you do steady-state cardio
and you start to lose muscle.
The other thing cardio does,
is it protects your body fat
and helps you store more body fat.
So now, most people who do cardio
are also at a caloric deficit,
so they're not necessarily in
a danger of getting fatter,
but they have a hormonal situation
that is protecting their body fat
and sacrificing their muscle.
So the weight you lose when you do cardio,
is muscle not body fat.
It's the opposite of what almost everybody
who does cardio wants.
So, this is why it's
not part of the program
and there's studies that back this up,
this has been very well understood.
This has been in literature
and academic literature
for more than 40 years.
The fact that the fitness
industry, never picked it up
is just shame on the fitness industry.
It's a, there's not a lot of people
who can read a lot of research
in the fitness industry.
So, I understand why, but you know,
I go to scientific conferences
on sports medicine,
and they talk about this all
the time, whereas you look
at the industry and it's
like, cardio's for weight loss
and strength training
is for building muscle
and neither story is even
close to being that simple
and one of those stories is dead wrong.
Now there's another great
study, that's a meta analysis
that looks at how strength
training actually makes
your heart and lungs, stronger
than cardiovascular exercise.
So the point is health.
You're getting everything you
need from strength training
and X3 is strength
training, so you will get
that cardiovascular health
benefit from your X3 exercise
as you would from strength
training, probably even
to a higher degree and
more so, than you would get
from cardiovascular exercise.
So, we've got the health thing covered
and you're gonna be leaner
and stronger and look better.
Women will look, you know,
in a more feminine shape
with a little bit of
muscle and less body fat,
and man obviously have the hormones
to build a lot more muscle.
That is why, we do not include
cardiovascular exercise
in our programming.
Lastly, I'd like to add, I know
there's gonna be some people
who do cardio, steady-state
cardio, maybe triathletes,
maybe distance runners, they
can check out, the book,
"Weightlifting is a Waste of Time" where
they can see the indepth analysis
and all of the references on this subject
because we covered it,
in the book, at length.